---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E1: UI Basic Technical Blog
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-08-29
labels:
  - MIS
---

## E1: UI Basic Technical Blog

For BrowserHistory1 I had an idea on what html tags to put when putting headings, paragraphs, images, and making a list. I had some experience with writing these basic tags before and the reading that we were required to read, which helped me remember. However there were a few problems that I encountered along the way with my first attempt because I didn’t know remember how to make a clickable link that leads to an external page. In addition, I had difficulties linking the itemized list to each of the four internal sections. I decided to watch the screencast to see what I was missing after my first failed attempt. As for my second attempt, I managed to get an Sd time of 21 minutes, and 1 second after a few times when I had to try and recall what I was missing.

BrowserHistory2 had somewhat of a similar problem for me as Browser History1, where there were things that I didn’t remember how to do from the readings. A few things that I didn’t know how to do in my first attempt is how to link my css with my index.html page and also how to link the google fonts. I had to go back to the readings to see how to link those two things. On the upside, creating a css style sheet felt more familiar, recalling from memory when I used Dreamweaver before. In the sense that there isn’t a necessary order to do the code in css, as long as they’re inside the proper curly brackets, then it’ll all work out. I managed to finish in Rx time of 9 minutes and 20 seconds on my second attempt. Overall, this WOD didn’t feel as difficult as the first one but I did learn to make sure I close each statement with a “;” because I kept forgetting to do so and it wasn’t processing the code.

Last but not least, BrowserHistory3. In my experience it was the hardest one out of the three. I looked at the instructions and had no idea how I was supposed to do any of it at all. I decided to watch the screencast before trying to attempt this, which I know isn’t recommended, but I knew I was going to be stuck if I tried it on my own. I learned more about the functions of the div tag because when I was doing the reading, I didn’t understand what its purpose was and how to use it. But seeing it in visually in this WOD was a great help. I also struggled with the css because I never worked with most of the elements that we had to use. After 3 attempts of trying and forgetting, then trying again, I managed to get an Av time of 11 minutes and 55 seconds. The challenge for this WOD was just trying to remember what code does what, but it’s a great learning process.
