---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 4 Checkpoint
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-12-09
labels:
  - MIS
---
 
## Assignment 4 Checkpoint

1.	Describe the web-application you intend to build (in detail please!)
The web application that I intend to build is an e-commerce website similar to what I did for my first and second assignment. The store will be based on the theme of stuffed animals  as products. It is intended to be an interactive website where users can login and add quantity of the products to the cart. I also plan on adding an option where they are able to clear the cart as well. Other details that entail this assignment are other pages necessary for a website such as the home page, about us page, contact page, login page, and register page.
2.	Indicate how you expect the application will make use of the required technical complexity items (e.g. file I/O, sessions, multi-dimensional arrays, etc.)
I will be using file I/O into my assignment by having a json array that holds and the information for the user in an array for the login and registration page (with validation). For multidimensional arrays, a I will have product data in a js file where I will be taking from for my products display page and look the array so I don’t have to manually code each one. I will be using sessions/cookies to save the session information when a user logs in, so when they add quantities to the cart, the quantities will be kept for that specific user. Doing sessions/cookies is a way to make it interactive with the user, along with going through the different pages the website will have to offer. In order to make the pages appealing at the very least, I have user various css files to improve the website look from just being plain. And lastly, to connect all of it together, custom functions such as return value will be used.
3.	What is your plan to ensure you successfully complete your project before the end of the semester?
I have completed a lot of the basic things that was already done in the previous two Assignments and only need to cover the new material. I started studying early for my other classes for finals already to be able to have some time to work on this Assignment for the next week or two. I plan on going in for help because I know I will definitely need it to move forward. I hope to complete it by this week before finals week begin and plan on doing the screencast (5 minute presentation) during my free days on finals week, then submit soon after.
4.	What progress have you made so far and what is left for you to do?
I have started building my website last week soon after Assignment 2 was finished. After hours spent with trials and errors, I was able to successfully complete the layout and the look of my new e-commerce website. The only challenges that I have left to face is adding sessions/cookies to save the data for each session for each user that log in.
