---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-08-29
labels:
  - MIS
---

## E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay

1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
  Assignment #2 was a continuation of Assignment 1 with the addition of login and registration pages. With login and registration, there is validation that needed to be inputted for on “proper” information to be allowed. In addition, if invalid information is inputted to the textbox, an error message or alert box needed to be placed for the user to see when logging in or registering. The  assignment also requires you to save the quantity data from the products display page into the invoice along with username personalization in the invoice.

Here is the link to my Assignment #2 folder for further details:
https://github.com/jdehitta/ITM352_F19_repo/tree/master/DeHitta_Jaren_Assignment2

2. What did you learn from this assignment?

  One of the main things that I learned was the difference between the validation using the server side and the client side. At first, I created validation through the client side in registration.html, but later learned that this will not allow for alert boxes after an error occurs. Another aspect that gave me a better understanding was using params to get the error message from the server. Although I don’t have a hundred percent understanding on its different uses, I am slowly understanding it more.
  
3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
  I did not work with a partner for this assignment. 
 
4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
  I went to Dr. Port’s office to get help. Most of what I got help on during these help sessions was saving the quantity data inputted from the products display page to the invoice and adding that small touch of personalization for the invoice. 
  One of the main struggles that I had with Assignment #2 was the validation for registration through the server. For those parts I integrated part of Lab 14 and got help in parts that I was having difficulty figuring out from other people, specifically the pop up/error messages that needed to be shown when registration information inputted does not meet the criteria written on the code.

5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
  Assignment #1 had a lot more focus on building an interface for the website and passing information through the server directly to another page. Assignment #2 on the other hand focused more on connecting various pages together. This included the storing of quantity data that the user chooses from the product display page to the invoice page and storing any registration information for future login uses. The second assignment was definitely more complex.
  
6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging 
  It took a lot of time to finish this assignment; hours and hours of changing code and testing it out. I would say that the time I allocated was 20% of the time thinking about how to do something, 40% writing the code, and 40% to testing and debugging the code. I thought about what I’m supposed to do or should do at times because I would need to know what I need and how to try to do something before executing it. However, I spent most of my time trying to figure out the code that I need and continuously kept changing the code when one thing doesn’t work. At the same time I did a lot of testing, mainly for validation, to see if what I did was working or if I had to change or redo something.
  
7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
  One of the easier parts of this project was creating a login and registration page. It wasn’t as difficult to redirect the user to another page compared to its counterparts since this was something that was done similarly in Assignment #1. 
  As I mentioned in my answers in some of the previous questions, the validation for login and mostly registration was what didn’t work so well for me. This is the part of the assignment that I spent majority of my time on. It seemed a bit more complex than what I had imagined how I  would be before tackling the assignment and was also something that wasn’t needed in the previous assignment.
  
8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
If I were to go back in time, I would have wanted to go in for office hours more than I did in order for me to progress in the Assignment much smoother. However, due to the busy schedule that I have near the ending of the semester, I didn’t have as much time available to come in as I would have liked. 
